Masking st (#4261)
SumoLogic/sumologic-documentation: docs/send-data/opentelemetry-collector/remote-management/source-templates/windows.md

---
id: windows
title: Windows Source Template
sidebar_label: Windows
description: Learn about the Sumo Logic Windows source template for OpenTelemetry.
---

import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

<head>
  <meta name="robots" content="noindex" />
</head>

<p><a href="/docs/beta"><span className="beta">Beta</span></a></p>

<img src={useBaseUrl('img/integrations/microsoft-azure/windows.png')} alt="Thumbnail icon" width="100"/> <img src={useBaseUrl('img/send-data/otel-color.svg')} alt="Thumbnail icon" width="30"/>

> Windows source template creates an OpenTelemetry configuration that can be pushed to a remotely managed OpenTelemetry collector (abbreviated as otelcol). By creating this source template and pushing the config to the appropriate OpenTelemetry agent you can ensure collection of windows event log and metrics of Windows to Sumo Logic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Windows source template creates an OpenTelemetry configuration that can be pushed to a remotely managed OpenTelemetry collector (abbreviated as otelcol). By creating this source template and pushing the config to the appropriate OpenTelemetry agent, you can ensure collection of windows event log and metrics of Windows to Sumo Logic.
```

		
## Fields creation in Sumo Logic for Windows

If not already present, the following [Fields](/docs/manage/fields/) are created as part of source template creation.

- **`sumo.datasource`**. Fixed value of **windows**.

> - **`deployment.environment`** User configured field at the time of collector installation. This identifies the environment where the windows system resides. For example: dev, prod, or qa.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **`deployment.environment`** User configured field at the time of collector installation. This identifies the environment where the Windows system resides. For example: dev, prod, or qa.
```

> - **`host.group`**. This is a collector level field and is user configured (at the time of collector installation). Through identifies the Windows host group.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **`host.group`**. This is a collector-level field that is user configured at the time of collector installation. It identifies the Windows host group.
```

- **`host.name`**. This is tagged through the resourcedetection processor. It holds the value of the host name where the OTel collector is installed.
		
## Prerequisites
		
### For logs collection

> Ensure that the channel for which windows event log are to be collected is installed/enabled on the windows machine getting monitored.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ensure that the channel for collecting Windows event logs is installed and enabled on the monitored Windows machine.
```

		
## Source template configuration
		

> You can follow the below steps to set a remotely managed OpenTelemetry collector and push the source template to it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Follow the below steps to set a remotely managed OpenTelemetry collector and push the source template to it.
```

		
### Step 1: Set up remotely managed OpenTelemetry collector
		
import CollectorInstallation from '../../../../reuse/apps/opentelemetry/collector-installation.md';
		
<CollectorInstallation/>
		
### Step 2: Configure the source template
		
In this step, you will configure the yaml required for Windows Collection. Below are the inputs required for configuration :
		
- **Name**. Name of the source template.
- **Description**. Description for the source template.

#### Logs Collection

> - **Fields/Metadata**. You can provide any customer fields to be tagged with the data collected. By default sumo tags _sourceCategory with the value otel/windows

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Fields/Metadata**. You can provide any customer fields to be tagged with the data collected. By default, sumo tags `_sourceCategory` with the value otel/windows.
```

> - **Fields/Metadata**. You can provide any customer fields to be tagged with the data collected. By default sumo tags _sourceCategory with the value otel/windows
> - **Windows Event**. In this section you can select choose among the most widely used windows event channel for which windows event log collection will be enabled. You can also provide **Custom Event Channels** providing any customer event channel for which event logs are to be collected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Fields/Metadata**. You can provide custom fields to tag the data collected. By default, sumo tags `_sourceCategory` with the value otel/windows.
- **Windows Event**. In this section, you can select among the most widely used Windows event channels for which windows event log collection will be enabled. You can also specify **Custom Event Channels** to include any additional event channels for which you want to collect event logs.
```

> - **Forward to SIEM**. Check the checkbox to forward your data to [Cloud SIEM](/docs/cse)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Forward to SIEM**. Check the checkbox to forward your data to [Cloud SIEM](/docs/cse).
```

#### Metrics Collection

> - **Metrics**. Select the metric scrappers you want to enable. By default metric collection for CPU,memory,disk,load,file system,network and paging are enabled and process metric collection is disabled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Metrics**. Select the metric scrappers you want to enable. By default, metric collection for CPU, memory, disk, load, file system, network and paging are enabled and process metric collection is disabled.
```

##### Enable process metric collection (Optional)

import ProcMetrics from '../../../../reuse/apps/opentelemetry/process-metric-collection.md';

<ProcMetrics/>
		

> - **Scan Interval**. The frequency at which the source is scanned.
> 
> **Processing Rules** -  You can add processing rules for logs/metrics collected. To learn more, refer to [Processing Rules](../processing-rules/index.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Scan Interval**. The frequency at which the source is scanned.
- **Processing Rules**.  You can add processing rules for logs/metrics collected. To learn more, refer to [Processing Rules](../processing-rules/index.md).
```
